RAW EXTRACT 1 — Technology Choices (TechnologyChoices.pdf, attached to MVNx Inception Activities page)
Cloud Providers — According to the market information Vodafone currently have partnerships with all of the vendors listed below. We know that Telecom as a Service TaaS) have a platform support offering that they can provide already. This provides a series of platform capabilities that can help fast track the project. Their primary relationship is with AWS at this point. I would recommend following that approach. But try to stay agnostic as possible to avoid vendor lock-in. AWS, Google Cloud, Microsoft Azure, Oracle Cloud. Database/Storage Vendors — There are lots of data vendors in the market currently. Like programming languages there are considerations to be made when selecting one. Since each service that needs a datastore has its own requirements, there is no one db to rule them all. MySQL/PostgresDB Both are inexpensive, well supported, RDBMS. Postgres is available via TaaS. MongoDB Excellent for Object Storage and provided by TaaS but there are other vendors available. CockroachDB A multi-region database that supports our data sovereignty requirements that is cloud vendor agnostic. Redis High speed lightweight option for storage. Excellent for state storage. Content Management Systems — Currently Contentful is in place in Vodafone and it would make sense to stay consistent. API Gateways — With an understanding that Vodafone would like to keep MVNx cloud agnostic so that it could be deployed to any of the big cloud vendors or in a data centre for hosting within a particular country tying to a cloud providers option does not make sense. Kong and Tyk provide good Open Source options that are proven in enterprise projects. APIGee Hybrid from Google is not tied to the cloud provider specifically and can be deployed anywhere. Its highly comprehensive providing capabilities that outstrip the other options but it does cost more as a result. Event Bus — Currently there are a number of options in this space. The question comes down to how much automation and customisation do you want to add. Current TaaS has Apache Kafka in place and DNext is geared towards that as well. But if "Green field" is really a thing, then all options should be reviewed and considered. Network Connectivity: How is your message bus going to communicate over the cloud? Direct Connect? VPN? NATS Jetstream works with straight TLS. Message Replay: Do we need the option to go back and replay messages from the past? If so, Kafka makes sense, other options are Redpanda or Pulsar. There are a number of newer options out there created to be as enterprise level as Kafka but have managed to tune the configuration complexity down to a manageable level like Redpanda. Container Technologies — Most "serverless" technologies tend to have their own incarnations that are specific to the cloud vendors. Using these make it harder for the platform to be cloud agnostic. The only technology that provides that agonistic behaviour is Kubernetes. Having said that, each vendor has its own version with it own capabilities. Policing the operations setup to make sure that none of the vendor specific features are used is something that automated tests can be used to identify. This keeps the setup agnostic. Observability Platforms — There are a large number of observability platforms now. Each cloud provider provides a level of logs and observability but a log aggregator like Splunk or Datadog are highly useful to provide a collective view of the system. These are expensive though so Grafana provides a cheaper alternative but it requires heavy configuration to support. Currently TaaS provides DataDog for this purpose. Programming languages — Considerations for language selection for a service. Languages known by the existing employees. Cost of hiring people with expertise in the language. Community support. Ease to train. Certain languages have "strengths", for example, Rust and C are considered good for embedded programming. Suitability for containerisation. For example the JVM is not the best thing for containerisation, even with GraalVM, until Java 22 when changes were made to better support containerisation and serverless support. Go on the other hand just works well in containers. Javascript - large number of people who know it, salaries are reasonable. Typescript helps plug a lot of the dynamic issues. Go - popular but professionals are hard to find. Expensive to hire. Very lightweight and performant code. Rust - popular in the market, hard to train existing developers, performant, excellent memory management. Java - tried and tested language. Well supported. Big community. Easy to find professionals to hire. Existing engineers in Vodafone know this. Python - popular language. Large supportive community. Well supported package management. Easy to train. Elixir - evolved from Erlang which is born of the telecoms industry. Not a lot of people know it. Well designed for networking. Data Mesh — To realize the vision of a multi-tenant, cloud-native Data Mesh tailored for event-driven Data Products, we are standardising on a best-in-class technology stack. Gen AI Accelerator: Thoughtworks Data Product Workbench. This proprietary tooling acts as the primary developer accelerator, built to target the Databricks ecosystem. Dramatically increases velocity by bridging the gap between AI-generated boilerplate logic and production-grade deployment. Automates the generation of metadata, data contracts, and discovery tags from the moment of a product's inception. Compute & Execution Engine: Databricks. Serves as the foundational compute layer within our Utility Plane. Establishes secure multi-tenancy by providing unified infrastructure with rigorous logical isolation for diverse business domains. Facilitates event-driven intelligence by processing data as continuous streams rather than static repositories. Provisions dedicated storage and sandbox testing environments automatically via code. Operational Rigor & Transformation: dbt (Data Build Tool). Drives the CI/CD pipelines and automated testing embedded directly into the Data Product lifecycle. Ensures Data Products remain interoperable and modular, allowing them to connect seamlessly to answer complex questions. Federated Governance & Discovery: Collibra. Acts as the central Data Catalog, ensuring every Data Product is registered, documented, and easily discoverable. Enforces "Policy-as-code" by halting deployments that violate global non-negotiable standards (e.g., PII masking, RBAC). Empowers local domain owners to define and monitor specific SLA rules and quality thresholds.
RAW EXTRACT 2 — Integration Architecture & KORE Migration (IntegrationArchitecture.pdf)
Migration of KORE — KORE is the existing Travel SIM BSS. The VRS team that works on this product currently have created their own BSS functionality on top to move as much of their critical functionality away from the inflexible KORE platform as possible. This has given the team more control and flexibility. The next step in the plan is to move away from KORE altogether. Some of KOREs remaining features that we consume could be considered to be OSS functionality. The KORE system has its own interaction with a SIM Vendor and they speak to the Core Network owned by Vodafone. The proposal is to strangle out the KORE platform. We do this by creating a layer (strangler facade), between the Travel SIM system and the KORE system with routing capabilities. We then add an interface to the Core Network (an anti-corruption layer) to avoid disrupted communications with the Core Network and ensure we uphold the existing contract in place with the Core Network interface. Next we start to build out the MVNx capabilities. Some of these will involve new calls to the Core Network (to provision eSIMs for example). Once the existing KORE functionality has been replicated we can proceed to start sending "friendly customers" to be routed through the MVNx platform rather than KORE. Once functionality is proven we can proceed to send all requests for a specified on-footprint region through the MVNx platform. This proves the functionality. Once the provisioning and management of a region is proven, we can look to expand scope to multi-region support on-footprint. Next we move off-footprint and that's when we need to start adding in adapters for the various off-footprint telecoms providers rather than the Core Network. This ensures that as we move region to region the adapters are the smallest amount of work required and do not impact the BSS at large. Once all regions are covered by the MVNx platform, we can remove the strangler facade and allow the Travel SIM BSS to interface directly with the MVNx platform thats been built to that point. Initial Domain Map/Bounded Context — In our analysis of this particular project we start the the problem space. From our Event Storm we could see a number of domains appearing in the space. These could be collected in a number of core domains: Provisioning, Connectivity, Tenant Management, Commerce, Communications, Identity Management. As we analysed the grouping of the domains and looked at the overlapping concerns in our workflows, we could see the contexts starting to shine through: Product Catalog, Inventory, Customer orders, Billing, Sign up, Reporting. Finally we bring in our external systems to show their impact in the relevant domains: Sim Vendor, KORE.
RAW EXTRACT 3 — NFR Alignment & Security/Performance Notes (NFR's Alignment.pdf)
Access & Identity — Authentication, Identification, Access audit and Password policies are mandatory requirements. Only when mandatory, use of shared accounts will require formal approval. We must predefine account suspension criteria. Customer portal access — Isolate services which non-administrative users can access. We must respect sovereign rights in countries with sovereignty issues. Travel sim portal will require global access. MVNO tenants should be scoped to their country of operation. Tenant portal access — Use Active Directory roles. Access is managed contractually. Define AD roles during the process. Avoid overly granular roles. Define access via tenant contracts. In-house platform access — Functional accounts (systems accessing the platform), must meet their own set of mandatory requirements. Use Active Directory roles. Enable additional verification for platform access. Privileged access (e.g prod access) must only be granted on a need-to-use basis. Observability — Security thresholds are mandated by VFTR_CyberSecurity_NFR_V2.0. Secure by design principles must be followed when setting alerts and thresholds. SLAs and OLAs must be predefined with the business and product owners. Measures of Success work can guide SLA/OLA setting for the respective teams. See VFTR_CyberSecurity_NFR_V2.0 item 4.1.1 for events that are mandatory to log. VFTR_CyberSecurity_NFR_V2.0 item 4.1.2 for log structure mandated by Cyber Security. Automated process must be defined to send logs to central logging server. Observability must be setup for non-prod environments as soon as possible to build in a prod ready fashion as soon as possible. Data management — Legal banners must be displayed on all external interfaces which have data collection capabilities. Production data storage is prohibited in non-production environments. Data stored in non-trusted environments must be encrypted. Geography must be a first class concern. Data for the sales teams need to be a first class concern. Select an analytics platform from the current suite of available tools. Analytics capability needs to be provided to tenants as we build for production. Data regulation teams provide global support for this. Rules and regulations need to be pre-defined before any data is stored. We must build for prod from as early as possible. Business critical data must be shared with checksums to ensure integrity. Modification of data is not permitted if it risks data integrity. Security — Reference should be made to VFTR_CyberSecurity_NFR_V2.0. Security teams need to be involved in the decision making process of when and how to prioritise security work. Security considerations should be discussed in kick-off and desk check for each ticket. Security maintenance work should have a pre-designated share of sprint capacity, before decisions need to be escalated. A single aggregation score CHARM score), is kept. Teams must keep above its predefined threshold. MENT scoring is used to assess risks. Regular, small scale threat modelling is critical. SAST testing should be placed early in the pipeline. Automated DAST tests should run against deployed applications in later (the most prod-like), environments. Pre Go Live testing is required, and much deeper than a Pen Test. Cyber security teams are responsible for monitoring and policing. Accessibility — WCAG 2.2 Level A is legally mandated across UK, Europe and the US. WCAG 2.2 Level AA would be our standard recommendation. Pipeline testing tools are available and highly recommended. Scaling — Noisy neighbour issues have been seen in the past. Licencing model manages tenant usage and numbers of users they can bring onboard. Regular cross tenant data isolation testing should be automated with pipelines. Ops-model needs to handle massive scaling issues from high levels of success. Alert thresholds and circuit breakers need to be put in place to protect against excessive scaling. Monitoring of cloud bills needs to be enabled and visible. Stress, performance and load testing should all be considered in automated pipelines. They should be run against environments as close to production as possible. Failure — Modular systems should be able to fail independently. Refund is considered failure. Market differ a lot on definitions. Escalation procedures need to be clearly defined early. Microservices should be built to expect other downstream systems to fail, and recover once that downstream system has recovered. Change failure rates need to be a key metrics for development teams. Mean Time To Recovery MTTR) also needs to be monitored. Recovery should follow a 'fail forward' (fixing changes should be pushed through the pipeline over reverting releases), approach except in scenarios where that is not suitable. Growth — All updates must be recorded for audit trail purposes. Applications follow semantic versioning. We should look to move away from manual oversight for productions changes. Feature evolution should be managed by toggles, all developers should be able to push toggled off code into production. We should drive for continuous deployment, and move away from scheduled upgrades.